Published: 2013-12-10T21:31:14.000Z
Author: Greg Tyler <greg@gregtyler.co.uk>
Standfirst: I mistake racism-centric Shaft for a Christmas film. The result is exactly what you might expect.

Christmas 2013: Shaft
  
_Who's the black private dick that's a sex machine to all the chicks? SHAFT! Ya damn right! He's a complicated man and no one understands him but his woman._   


### Christmas spirit


★ ☆ ☆ ☆ ☆ I was watching _Shaft_ outwith my Christmas marathon, but the opening shot featured some festive decorations and I got excited. That scene lasted all of ten minutes, and didn't even mention the time of the year. However, John Shaft does help some people out, so I'll give him one star out of sheer pity.   


### Ho-ho-who's in it?


★ ★ ★ ★ ☆ Cinematic lead John Shaft is Samuel L. Jackson. And I don't mean "played by Samuel L. Jackson", Shaft embodies everything about Sam's classic Hollywood spirit. In particular, his delivery of lines is unfaltering and every little one-liner feels like an essential life lesson. Of course, he says [those words (NSFW)][2] plenty of times.   

We also see Christian Bale as a racist rich white kid who gets himself on the wrong side of Shaft, and is handsomely rewarded with punches to the face. Bale's performance is solid, but overshadowed by the fact that his character's main development happens when he's granted bale (gettit?) from a crime he almost certainly did commit.   


### Family fun


☆ ☆ ☆ ☆ ☆ Ha ha ha! Seriously? It opens with a race crime! Not suitable for kids, parents, grandparents, white people, or those with an aversion to swearing.   


### Jingle Bells


★ ★ ☆ ☆ ☆ Whilst the music isn't at all Christmassy, it is _fantastic_. If you haven't heard [Shaft's theme][3] then you've been missing out, and the rest of the film continues in a similar 80s cop vibe. It's a marvellous soundtrack which, while not very Christmassy, deserves a few points here for the sheer goddamn quality of it.   


### Overall


★ ★ ☆ ☆ ☆   
_Shaft_ is by no means a Christmas film. The music, the plot, the atmosphere; it's all fantastic, but distinctively not festive. I enjoyed this movie, but including it in the Christmas season was a foolhardy movie.   


English, [Muckle Flugga][4], do you speak it?

[1]: http://gregtyler.co.uk/christmas-2013-film-list/
[2]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xh7GTyFJQAw
[3]: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cEaRCAcfOEQ
[4]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Muckle_Flugga
